My favorite series.
Star 
Trek is an American 
science fiction entertainment 
franchise created by 
Gene Roddenberry and under the ownership of
 CBS and Paramount.[Note 1] Star Trek: 
The Original Series and its live action TV spin-off 
shows, Star Trek: 

The 
Next Generation, 
Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, Star Trek: Voyager, and Star Trek: 
Enterprise as well as the Star Trek film series make up 
the main canon. Star Trek: 
The Animated Series is debated and the expansive library of Star Trek 
novels and comics, 
although still part of the franchise, are generally considered non-canon.
[Note 2]

The first series, now referred to as "The Original Series", debuted in 1966 and ran for three seasons on NBC. It followed the interstellar adventures of James T. 
Kirk and the crew of the starship Enterprise, an exploration vessel of a 
23rd-century 
interstellar "United Federation of Planets". In creating the first "Star Trek", 
Roddenberry was inspired by Westerns such as Wagon Train, along with the 
Horatio 
Hornblower novels and Gulliver's Travels. In fact, the original show was almost entitled, 
'Wagon Train to the Stars.' These adventures continued in the short-lived 
Star Trek: 
The Animated Series and six feature films. Four spin-off television series were 
eventually produced: Star Trek: The Next Generation, followed the 
crew of a new 
starship Enterprise set a century after the original series; Star Trek: 
Deep Space 
Nine and Star Trek: Voyager, set contemporaneously with The Next Generation; and Star 
Trek: Enterprise, set before the original series, in the early days of 
human interstellar travel. 
Four additional The Next Generation 
feature films were produced. In 2009, the 
film franchise underwent a relaunch with a prequel to the 
original series set in an 
alternate timeline titled simply Star Trek. This film featured a new cast portraying younger 
versions of the crew from the original Enterprise.
[Note 3] A sequel to this film, Star
 Trek Into Darkness, premiered on May 16, 2013. 
A thirteenth theatrical feature, the next 
sequel to Into Darkness, has been confirmed for release in July 2016, to coincide with the 
franchise's 50th anniversary.